## Background
In Taiwan, there are three groups of immigrants: migrant workers, marital migrants, and white collar foreign professionals. They are partially overlapped; marital migrants are allowed to work as professionals or labors. Migrant workers can apply for citizenship if they marry to Taiwanese. In the future, migrant workers as caretakes can apply for residence permit after working for seven years in a row [Footnote](The Executive Yuan approved New Economic Immigration Law on May 15, 2018. This new regulation encourages foreign professionals, investors, and caretakers to apply for citizenship.). 

In recent years, transformation of demographic and economic structure resulted in the unbalanced labor supply and demand in Taiwan. On the one hand, the birth rate has dropped from 2.297% in 1981 to 0.823% in 2017. The number of population increased by 327,947 people in 1981, but it only increased by 31,411 in 2017. On the other hand, the economic structure gradually changed from agriculture to production and service industries. The number of pople who worked in production and service industries increased from 2.3 million in 1971 to 8 millon in 2011. The population transition creates demand on labors, while the economic development requires more investment and educated, professional workers.   

In October 1989, the Council of Labor Affairs (MOL) decided to open up Taiwan’s job market to migrant workers to respond to these issues. Foreign blue collar workers from Thailand, Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Vietnam, China and Mongolia are now 
allowed to work in Taiwan as part of solution of labor shortages. According to MOL, As of the end of December 2017, there were 676,142 foreign workers in Taiwan. Among them, 60.43% employed as manufacturing workers, 0.76% as construction workers, 1.82% on fishing crews, 36.71% as caretakers and 0.29% as domestic helpers. [Footnote](https://www.wda.gov.tw/cp.aspx?n=1C6028CA080A27B3) They can work as long as 12 years.    

About the same time, marital immigrants entered into Taiwan in a large scale. One of the major reasons is young male in the rural area lack opportunities of knowing young female as the service industry attracts many female labors. Up to the end of 2017, it is estimated that about 350 thousand of couples whoe sposes are from China and 176 thousand from other countries. [(Gender Equality Committee of the Executive Yuan)](https://www.gender.ey.gov.tw/gecdb/Stat_Statistics_DetailData.aspx?sn=lJvq%2BGDSYHCFfHU73DDedA%3D%3D). Among them, 40 percent of Chinese spouses get residence permits and 68 percent of international spouse are granted national identity cards. [Footnote: According to Cross-Strait People's Relations Ordinance,  Chinese spouses can become naturalized after living in Taiwan for six years. Other countries' spouses also need six years to become citizens, and they have to renunciate their natioanlity afterwards.]  There are mixed evidences about the birth rate of foreign spouses (Yang et. al, 2012, Mo and Lai, 2004). Many foreign spouses are working full-time or part-time as caretakers, waitress, and domestic helpers.  
  

Although migrant workers and marital immigrants may attenuate the problem of labor supply as the birth rate is getting lower, brain drain becomes a serious problem for the economy that needs to be re-configured. In 2015, it is estimated that 724,000 people worked overseas, which is about 10% higher than 2009  [footnote]   (https://www.ndc.gov.tw/Content_List.aspx?n=E61E31EE6FB10140&upn=0A078649EEC83462). Stagnant salary is often cited as the major reason of emigration. Lin, Chang, and Lu (2017) analyzed data from 1980 to 2012 and pointed out that the the gross domestic product per capita (GDP) is negatively correlated with real wage in Taiwan; labors have limited share of economic growth. Despite that, Taiwan's government has aggresively attracted foreign talents. According to MOL, the number of foreign professionals increased from 11,228 in 2004 to 18,412 in 2017. The remarkable gap between the scale of immigration and emigration pushes the government to amend the Act for the Recruitment and Employment of Foreign Professionals, which is passed by the Legislative Yuan in 2017. The new law allows foreign professionals to extend their work permission from 3 years to five years. Foreigners can apply for temporary visa to find a job. Certainly, it remains to be seen whether more foreign professionals are coming to work in Taiwan.    

## Management
The abuse or mistreat of migrant workers is often made local headlines. They include lack of freedom to change employer, live-in situations with employers, and high broker fees in mother countries [(Jeremy Oliver, 2017)](https://sentinel.tw/improving-migrant-workers-taiwan/). In 2016, the government amended the Empolyment Serivce Act to improve the structures. After being hired, migrant workers do not have to leave the country every three years, which reduces the brokerage fees for re-entering Taiwan. The employers also cannot refuse to give them paid leave as it is required by Labor Standards Act, a statue that mainly regulates domestic labor and employer. According to a survey conducted by MOL, the average salary of foreign manufacturing workers and caretakers have been increasing for the past three years. [(Ya-wen Li, 2018)](http://news.ltn.com.tw/news/life/breakingnews/2362896)         

Like other countries, Taiwanese are concerned that migrant workers replace vanishing Taiwanese workers. Lin (2001) investigated the geographical distribution of migrant workers and concluded that it is difficult for domestic workers to move to the area that are populated by migrant workers. Tsay and Lin (2001) found that foreign labor has a negative effect for the semi- and less-skilled construction workers but benefits employment for managerial/professional workers. Lan (2010) found that employers of migrant workers tend to agree that migrant work forces can supplement local workers but employers of local workers tend to have a perception that local workers are replaced by migrant labors. In sum, the previous literature has mixed evidence about the influence of foreign labors in terms of employment.      

Human trafficking is another pressing challenge for Taiwan. The victims are girls and women from Vitename, Thailand, and China. Huang (2017) examined the characteristics of victims in 132 court proceedings related to the Human Trafficking Prevention Act (HTPA) enacted in 2009. She found that about half of the cases (56.8%) involve adult foreign victims. Lured by higher wages and not allowed to switch employers, some migrant workers choose sex industry [(Liu, 2015)](https://www.thedailystar.net/human-trafficking-asia/how-migrant-workers-become-human-trafficking-victims-taiwan-121102). MOL estimated that the number of missing foreign workers has declined over the years and reached at 52,000 up until 2017[(Central News Agency, 2018)](http://www.cna.com.tw/news/ahel/201802220074-1.aspx).  

In brief, Taiwan government well managed migrant workers regarding their salary and impact on domestic job market. But the abuse and mistreat of migrant workers remains a serious issue. They range from age exploitation, verbal abuse to physical violence. The issue of human trafficking also needs to be addressed by law enforcement and prosecution. As the government intends to make the society more inclusive and diverse, it is important to examine public opinion toward the immigrantion.    

## Reference
Huang, Lanying, 2017. "The Trafficking of Women and Girls in Taiwan: Characteristics of Victims, Perpetrators, and Forms of Exploitation" *BMC Womens Health*. 2017; 17: 104.   
Lan, Ke-jeng, 2010. "Perception Differentials about the Impact of Hiring Foreign W orkers between Enterprises With and Without Foreign W orkers and between Employers and Employees: A Survey Analysis of Enterprises and Employees in the Manufacturing Industry of Kaohsiung Count" *Survey Research: Method and Application* 24: 43-89.     
Lin, Ji-Ping, 2001, “Impacts of Foreign Labor on the Internal Migration of Domestic Labor: The Case of Taiwan”, *Taiwan Economic Association Annual Conference Proceedings*, 329-363.
Lin, Chang-ching, Juin-jen Chang, and Shu-shiuan Lu, 2017. "Wage Stagnation? Fact Disclosure and Cross-Country Comparison" *Journal of Social Sciences and Philosophy*, Volume 29, Number 1, pp. 1–39.    
Mo, Li Li and Pei-ling Lai, 2004. "Exploring Low Birth Rate and Children of Foreign Spouses." *Community Development Journal* 100: 55-65.    
Tsay, Ching-lung and Ji-Ping Lin, 2001, “Labor Importation and Unemployment of Local Workers in Taiwan”, *Asian and Pacific Migration Journal*, 10(3-4), 505-534.   
Yang, Ching-li, I-chi Huang, Hung-jeng Tsai, and Hsiang-ping Wang, 2012. "Comparisons of Fertility Rate and Birth Quality between Native and Foreign-Born Women in Taiwan." *Journal of Humanities and Social Science* 24,1:83-120.     


